# vmdktoami
VMDK to AMI Converter
Abstract
As part of this project a programmed tool is developed for converting VMware virtual machines backups to Amazon Machine Image (AMI) on Amazon Web Services Cloud (AWS Cloud). VMware backups involve backing up of VMDK files as part of image level backup. The VMDK files can be retrieved and exported from backup device directly by mounting the backup path on any host similar to instant access restore functionality which internally creates NFS export for the backup path. The user can locally view and access the VM files after the export is mounted. As part of this project we will be using AWS SDK API called BOTO3 along with a Python programing language to read and convert the VMDK to Amazon Machine Image. As part of this project we will be accessing the files from local storage. Boto3 is an AWS Software Development Kit (SDK) for Python, which allows Python developers to write software that makes use of AWS services like Amazon S3 and Amazon EC2. Once the VMDK files are uploaded to Amazon S3 it is used to create AMI with which we can deploy and run EC2 instances in AWS Cloud. The conversion task helps in migrating VMware workloads and perform restore to AWS Cloud from a VMware backup which can be exported from backup device without impacting any of the production VMs in VSphere infrastructure. Backup of VMware VMs such as Oracle DB, Exchange serves etc can directly be converted to AMI from a disk or image level backup that has VMDK files. If the local environment suffers any event, user can quickly launch instances in AWS cloud to preserve business continuity. The files uploaded to AWS S3 can also be used as an option for backup to S3 and can be retrieved at any point.
